comprehensive exams: 

. 
By the end of their first semester, student should be talking seriously with faculty 
members about possible research projects. The student should begin earnest work on 
one of the projects early in their second semester. 
. 
Project titles, primary and secondary advisor names, a short description of their 
differences, and a 1 paragraph abstract will be submitted to the Graduate Oversight 
Committee for approval by March 1 of the 2nd semester in residence for fall admits or 
the 3rd semester in residence for spring admits. Each submitted title/abstract must carry 
the signature of the primary advisor for that project. 
. 
Work on the two projects should be carried out during the student second and third 
semester, as well as the summer between their first and second years. student are 
strongly encouraged to include summer support in their discussions with faculty mentors. 
. 
Draft project reports will be submitted to the Graduate Oversight Committee for approval 
by March 1 of the 4th semester in residence for fall admits or the 5th semester in 
residence for spring admits. Each submitted report must carry the signature of the 
primary advisor for that project. 
. 
The Graduate Oversight Committee will review the draft project reports for breadth and 
provide feedback, if necessary, for the student to finalize the two project reports by 
March 15. students will then receive authorization to schedule the exam. 
. 
The two project reports in final form will be submitted to the student Comprehensive 
Examination Committee at least two weeks in advance of the oral portion of the 
comprehensive examination. 



. 
It is the student responsibility to schedule the oral portion of the examination with their 
Comprehensive Examination Committee. All members of the Comprehensive Exam 
Committee must be physically present for the exams. The student has until the last day 
of classes of the 4th semester in residence for fall admits, or the 5th semester in 
residence for spring admits, to take the comprehensive exam. student should refer to 
the academic calendar for specific dates pertaining to each semester. However, the 
student should plan to take the exam as soon as possible after the Graduate Oversight 
Committee has reviewed the project reports. 
. 
The student should contact the Graduate Coordinator prior to the exams to obtain the 
necessary paperwork for the committee. 
. 
Following successful defense of the projects, all orals paperwork should be submitted by 
the exam chair to the Graduate Coordinator. This step makes the student eligible for pay 
at the Ph.D. Candidate rate. The new rate will go into effect at the beginning of the 
following spring or fall semester. 
